---
title: 2009 --> 2019
date: '2019-12-24T22:12:03.284Z'
description: '10 year challenge'
---

I may be arriving late to the #ï¸âƒ£ "2009 vs 2019" trend from a few weeks ago. But I just decided to think about all the things I have done in these last 10 years (also, they say each person follows its own path, so I'm just arriving to this "_milestone_" right now). It was until today, Christmas day of 2019, that I got the time (~10 minutes ðŸ‘€) and emotional effort to do some retrospective about my life in the last 10 years.

## It's not a _VS_, it's a _->_

I was starting this post as _2009 vs 2019_, but then I realized I'm not making a fight out of my 2009 self vs my 2019 self. Maybe I would have done so 2 months ago lol, but now I know if I am where I am in 2019, it's because I have **_evolved_** since 2009 (and before that).
Back in 2009, my life was pretty simple: going to College, playing WoW, eating, some homework here and there, learning about the things that caused me interest and the school didn't teach me (those were a lot ðŸ¤”).
Now in 2019, my life is a _little_ bit more complex: work, but make sure I don't overwork so I lose track of my personal life; playing WoW Classic, but no more than 2 hours a day; eating, but as healthy as possible, as now I get sick when I eat like I used to 10 years ago; taking care, not only of me, but of my family; and learning, learning is the only constant since 2009, although now I have way less time to do so ðŸ˜¢.
Not everything was perfect back in 2009: I had a _student budget_ , that is, like $2 a day to survive; my professional experience was non-existent, also my hometown was not exactly the best place to exploit it (it's not yet in 2019); I had 0 experience living alone by myself and I didn't even have a possibility of survive by more than 4 hours. But there is where the _evolution_ starts, I failed, multiple times, due to lot of these and other things I didn't know about or I was unaware I needed them, I made bad decisions across the years, felt afraid, make more errors and eventually I started learning from all of that, I started paying attention and being more objective about my flaws, my situation, my family, and then I started growing ðŸŒ¤. **Making mistakes is not an option for living.**
Overall, the 2010s for have been about moving away from the commodity of living with my mom, to the adventure of being with no-one but myself and my girlfriend ðŸ‘«; I moved to different cities in my country, away from my home town and now I only visit sporadically to greet my family; I started working, earning money, seeing that money going away, staying away from debt, but living in the edge; I have exploited my interest in programming and I like it, but the path has started to move to the side of what I had in mind even 2 years ago for myself; I have started thinking about my goals to the future, when a couple of months ago I only had in mind to _survive_; I had many downsides also, doubt of myself, impostor syndrome at work, a lot fear and a I lived in the comfort zone for a long time; I had get to travel a lot, knew places I didn't even know they existed 10 years ago; I learnt about taking care of myself, physically and emotionally, now I understand I am the most important thing in my life and it's up to me to make sure that person is stable.

## 2020

I have no idea where I will be in 2029, part of my evolution this decade was about making objectives and understand why and how the path to reach them changes over time. Right now I have a clear objective for the next years, and things are still moving for that to come, I am making sure to be in charge in my life to reach them, not the other way. ðŸ––
So far I'm starting 2020 with another move, but this time it's a little bit longer than the other movings I had this decade. It's abroad countries. With this move, which means a new culture to embrace, different language, away from my family and friends and even a different weather; there comes more challenges in work, new duties, new expectations from myself, there will be obstacles, problems, mistakes will be made, but I will learn from them and keep moving forward. So I will keep evolving. ðŸ‘½
